Want to do a quick run down of water all the amenities you're going to need before you can take on your
first guest.
I am putting this in this section for getting everything ready because I think that it's more important
that you do it now before you actually take bookings and take guests.
It makes a lot more sense to do this way in advance and it also will affect the photographs that you're
taking some of these things that you are functional items that I think you need to go and get and those
functional items should be included in the photographs so then someone seeing it they can see like how
well thought out this is and that there's not going to be anything missing.
There are a lot of different things that say are listing a spare space in your apartment or your home.
You might think oh you know someone has to stay in that room and it's you know work for that person
and you might think that since someone or lived in it it should be ready to go.
Well travelers have different needs than say a tenant that already lives there.
But if you are a hotel what types of things would you put in there so that guests don't ask or don't
have to ask for it.
One of the things that you'll find hosting guest is that they rarely ask for something they need.
And a lot of times the first time you hear about it is in their negative review they just don't ask.
They just kind of assume that you need you anticipate their needs.
And earlier I talked about how when your property's price rises you're going to be taking in a different
group of people the cheaper it is the more they will assume that they're supposed to be independent.
The last they'll assume you're going to be providing for them and as you slide up the price scale you're
going to start finding people who are going to expect that you're anticipating pretty much all of their
needs needs that they can't even articulate beforehand.
If you've traveled anywhere what are the basic things that you needed.
And I'm trying to here to save you a lot of time.
I did this through trial and error and these are things I just never thought that I would need.
And then all these things that I bought piecemeal I bought one thing at a time added it to my room or
added to the apartment and I kind of just knocked them out and one afternoon just doing a shopping trip
and they had just come in one after the other.
You know one person had asked for something and they asked to lay and then a second person asked you
something and I said OK something's here.
Something to that so I bought it.
The third person asked for something else.
So here are some quick ones that I think that a lot of you probably skipped over.
Do you have an alarm clock.
Someone is coming to visit.
They're probably on vacation or they might be on a business trip.
They might need to wake up a lot of people use their phones or alarms.
But it's good to put an alarm clock.
That's also a nice thing to put in the photograph and you share the bedroom.
The bedroom is that space for everyone.
You know they go to sleep and it also has some kind of functionality to it Hotel.
You would always expect to have an alarm clock or to be able to schedule a wakeup call.
Stat. You know if you don't have a desk it's not realistic for everyone to accommodate but if you do
have a desk or you do have an area that you can designate that they can use to write.
I found that putting basic stationery helps a lot.
It's just really it ends up being paper and pens.
It kind of depends on the age group.
But do people do end up using that and they do find it quite helpful.
You don't want the person laying down in bed and going Man I wish I had something to write on.
Well I'm just not going to say anything about it because they're either going to do is they're going
to internalize that and it's going increase the likelihood they're going to get a negative review.
One thing that we run into with older guests nightlights or night desks that's something that I didn't
realize existed.
I guess I'd realize it existed.
I just didn't have any idea why people use them.
They're the tiny little shoulder tables that you put at the side of a bed because late at night if you
want to get up you might need to reach for something or put something down.
And so that creates a problem for people who are getting up in the middle of the night to go to the
bathroom or to move around.
They won't be able to put something down that kind of segues and the other thing.
It's nice to have a lamp next to your bed because a lot of people there just will that's what they used
to like to turn off the lights turn on the lamp read go to bed and you know I always see when I say
these things and a hundred percent of people do these.
But you know it's a good 30 percent of people would expect something like that.
You don't really want to alienate that 30 percent blow dryers.
That's incredibly helpful because a lot of times you have people who are coming and going to be going
out at night or you have women and girls coming and they don't want to wait all day for their hair to
dry and a blow dryer is not something that is too typical for them to travel with.
So a lot of times of the do is ask in advance do you have a blowdryer and that's how they term it if
they should bring a blow dryer.
Blow dry is very cheap.
You can get a $10 one at Walgreens or Target.
That's something you can add very quickly.
That is something that people are very pleased to find cause a lot of times they don't anticipate it.
They ask you the day of oh you know there are blowdryer and you kind of save the day when you say yes
there is.
I've anticipated that need.
Basic toiletries.
This is something that obviously you should have and this is separate from your standard supply that
you get to maintain.
I mean things like sometimes people forget toothbrushes and toothpaste.
So you can always bring those travel size pack ones and to be honest if you buy one tube of toothpaste
and some disposable toothbrushes you might break five dollars and that five dollars will last you a
year because you'll have three or four guests you know have to use it but it's one of those saying That's
great to have breakfast foods is another thing you're not typically the person who stocks breakfast
food on the regular.
That's something definitely we're getting.
Especially if it's something that you can include and you take a photograph of your kitchen you can
show it like hey you come here.
These are some of the breakfast items that you can get if you're not a coffee drinker.
I would suggest getting a coffee maker.
You don't even have to get a coffee maker.
I mean get a French press a French press or you can get one on line for $20 maybe 25 30.
They get pretty expensive but they're much more reasonable much less unwieldy than a physical large
drip coffee machine.
That's the thing I've realized when you get older.
They really do want coffee.
Younger guests won't absolutely require it but they do find it a bonus that they can make coffee in
the morning.
And that's something that I've experienced roughly 50 percent of my guests expect coffee will vocalize
that they want coffee.
I found that it's very helpful to have basic things like wine openers.
You know what time you'll get Honeymooners couples or groups who are going to go out to dinner or they
might use their kitchen if that's an option.
Having a wine opener is something that's very helpful because a lot of times they'll bring wine extra
blankets.
That was one thing that I did not anticipate.
First if you ever have swings of temperature it's always nice to have extra blankets.
It's a bank is also help in the case that guests show up with extra gas to tell you about.
That's something that happens quite often.
Also in San Francisco it can get cold at night.
And we have heat and we tell them how to use heat.
But the problem with gas is they just won't.
Sometimes they know how to do it.
They won't do anything about it and then they'll complain about it later.
And then there's things you just have to anticipate you cannot anticipate that every gas is going to
take the initiative on themselves.
You almost need to coddle them in the sense that you need to show up and make sure that you have this
extra thing that's planned for any given situation.
One thing I found is really helpful is putting a water out that makes them feel like they've really
kind of thought through things that I could possibly need.
And really I just took a cough which is a fancy word for a bottle with a thin neck and you kind of has
a pop top on top.
And I just killed it up with filtered water and I put it out on the table with some classes.
Probably half of them used it.
But they definitely enjoyed it.
It's something that's very nice when they come back to you.
They can drink water and it stops them from having to go in and raiding your kitchen right after they
get back someone to hang their clothes was another one.
I didn't actually have a place in my space that I had converted.
I ended up putting small hooks on the wall and I use plastic hooks that were pretty much invisible so
when you look at them they don't really stick out but they are actually there and you can end up hanging
up some things on the wall.
You don't have closet space.
That's not a big deal but it would be nice to offer at least some space because you will get again older
guests who are going to a wedding and they might actually need to hang up a suit or a shirt and that's
going to be kind of painful for them if they don't have anywhere to put it.
All other things obviously that you're going to need basic things.
I mean cleaning supplies toilet paper paper towels sweaters is something that I always suggest because
you can always clean it right before they come and the sweater kind of has this effect that it makes
it look shiny like it's going to the wet surfers sheets and extra sheets.
Make sure that you have extra sheets and you have extra sheets for your extra sheets.
They'd have a very short lifespan specially when you're having guests coming in and out.
So anticipate that you know if something happens such that they put lipstick on your white sheets you
have backup sheets and make sure that you have things like Stain or mover's like always if you guys
have questions put it in the group discussions mean a private message if you think of any other supplies
or small things that made a big difference or could make a big difference or you want to know whether
or not it's worth it for you to buy something posted in the group discussion we can talk about it if
there are enough things that I miss that would be really helpful.
I'll definitely come back and make a new section and we can go over those two.